Add README.md (#8)
treeverse/boto-s3-router: README.md

# Boto S3 Router

Interact with S3-compatible services side-by-side with S3, without making any changes to your code. This package provides a boto3-like client that routes requests between S3 clients according to the bucket and the key in the request.

## Why use Boto S3 Router

Consider the following code, downloading an object from one bucket and uploading it to another after some manipulation:

```python
def calculate(s3_client):
    obj = s3_client.get_object(Bucket="bucket1", Key="a/b/c/obj")
    obj2 = do_something_to_obj(obj)
    s3_client.put_object(Body=obj2, Bucket="bucket2", Key="a/b/c/obj")
```

Suppose you want to migrate only `bucket2` to an S3-compatible storage like lakeFS or MinIO. 
Normally, you would have to refactor your code to allow using two S3 clients instead of just one.
Boto S3 Router allows you to do that without making any changes to the `calculate` function!

## Installation

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding a Prerequisites section here

Reviewer 2: Done

Boto S3 Router requires Python >= 3.6 to run.

### pip install

> If the python package is hosted on a repository, you can install directly using:

Reviewer: > If the python package is hosted on a repository

Not sure that I understand this sentence

Reviewer 2: Removed

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/treeverse/botos3router.git
```

### Setuptools

Install via [Setuptools](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

```sh
python setup.py install --user
```

## Basic Usage

```python
import boto3
import botos3router as s3r

# Initialize two boto S3 clients according to boto API
s3_east = boto3.client('s3', region_name='us-east-1', signature_version='v4',)
s3_west = boto3.client('s3', region_name='us-west-1')

# Defining the rules for the routing between the clients
profiles = {
    "s3_west": {
        "source_bucket_pattern": "bucket",
        "mapped_bucket_name": "new-bucket",
        "mapped_prefix": "test/"
    },
    "s3_east": {
        "source_bucket_pattern": "bucket*",
        "source_key_pattern": "a/*",
        "mapped_prefix": "test/"
    }

> }

Reviewer: Looking at the source_bucket_prefixes, isn't `bucket` a special case of `bucket*`? 
My understanding is that the correct client is chosen by the bucket prefix, is this correct?

Reviewer 2: Technically this example is valid because the client is chosen by the first profile that matches the bucket name. However, it is really confusing so I'm replacing it

Reviewer: Thanks, the new example is much clearer.

# Defining the mapping between the profiles to the boto clients
client_mapping = {"s3_west": s3_west, "s3_east": s3_east, "default":s3_east }

# Initializing the client
# The client supports all boto client API
client = s3r.client(client_mapping, profiles)

> # Use botwo client as boto client

Reviewer: The usage of "botwo" here is not intentional right?

client.put_object(Bucket="bucket", Prefix="a/b/obj") # routs to s3_west, the object will be "new-bucket/test/a/b/obj
```
## Usage with [lakeFS]
When a user uses boto3 client to access S3 wants to move only a subset of their data to lakeFS, Boto S3 Router allows using lakeFS and S3 side-by-side with minimum code changes.

> For example: a user can route all requests to S3 with ```bucket-a``` to lakeFS with ```example-repo/main/``` in lakeFS (example-repo = repository name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: a user can route all requests to S3 with `source-bucket-prefix` ```bucket-a``` to lakeFS with ```example-repo/main/``` in lakeFS (example-repo = repository name).
```

Is this what you meant?

> Before introducing the new client, the user interacts only with S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before introducing the new client, the user interacted only with S3:
```

```python
import boto3

s3 = boto3.client('s3')
s3.get_object(Bucket="test-bucket", Key="test/object.txt")
```

> With the new client: change in every place in the code where a boto S3 client is initialized.

Reviewer: This sentence is not clear. Is this accurate?
> With the new client: users can interact with both s3 and lakeFS while only modifying the boto S3 client initialization points

```python
import boto3
import botos3router as s3r

s3 = boto3.client('s3')
lakefs = boto3.client('s3', endpoint_url='https://lakefs.example.com')

profiles = {
   "lakefs":{
        "source_bucket_pattern": "bucket-a",
        "mapped_prefix": "dev/"
    },
    "lakefs-test":{
        "source_bucket_pattern": "example-old-bucket",
        "mapped_bucket_name": "example-repo",
        "mapped_prefix": "test/"
    },
}

s3 = s3r.client({"lakefs": lakefs, "lakefs-test": lakefs, "default": s3}, profiles)
s3.get_object(Bucket="example-old-bucket", Key="test/object.txt") # routes to example-repo in lakeFS
```

## Configuration

```
s3 = s3r.client(client_mapping, profiles)
```

> As can be seen in the examples above, Boto S3 Router is initialized using two configuration parameters:

Reviewer: The docs missing the point that before initializing Boto S3 Router one needs to create the s3 and lakefs clients and how. It is shown in the usage example but I think that it should be listed as a step

Reviewer 2: Added clarification that `minio` and `s3` are boto clients

# Boto S3 Router

Interact with S3-compatible services side-by-side with S3, without making any changes to your code. This package provides a Boto3-like client that routes requests between S3 clients according to the bucket and the key in the request.

## Why use Boto S3 Router

Consider the following code, downloading an object from one bucket and uploading it to another after some manipulation:

```python
def calculate(s3_client):
    obj = s3_client.get_object(Bucket="bucket1", Key="a/b/c/obj")
    obj2 = do_something_to_obj(obj)
    s3_client.put_object(Body=obj2, Bucket="bucket2", Key="a/b/c/obj")
```

> Suppose you want to migrate only `bucket2` to an S3-compatible storage like lakeFS or MinIO. 

Reviewer: I think that it is confusing to say that lakeFS is an S3-compatible **storage**

Reviewer 2: Changed to "service"?

client.put_object(Bucket="bucket", Prefix="a/b/obj") # routs to s3_west, the object will be "new-bucket/test/a/b/obj
```

## Usage with [lakeFS]
When you use Boto to access S3 and want to migrate only a subset of your data to lakeFS, Boto S3 Router allows you to use lakeFS and S3 side-by-side with minimum code changes.

Consider the following code, accessing objects in two S3 buckets:

```python
import boto3

s3 = boto3.client('s3')
s3.get_object(Bucket="bucket-a", Key="test/object.txt")
s3.get_object(Bucket="bucket-b", Key="test/object.txt")
```

Now suppose only `bucket-a` was migrated to lakeFS, and that the new repository in lakeFS is called `example-repo`. You can route only requests to this specific bucket to lakeFS, with all other requests still being routed to S3:

```python
import boto3
import botos3router as s3r

s3 = boto3.client('s3')
lakefs = boto3.client('s3', endpoint_url='https://lakefs.example.com')

profiles = {
   "lakefs":{
        "source_bucket_pattern": "bucket-a",
        "mapped_prefix": "dev/"
    }
}

s3 = s3r.client({"lakefs": lakefs, "default": s3}, profiles)

# All code accessing S3 stays the same as before:

> s3.get_object(Bucket="bucket-a", Key="test/object.txt") # routes to example-repo (dev branch) in lakeFS

Reviewer: Is 'bucket-a' the storage namespace for example-repo? 
By reading this example I can't understand what makes requests to bucket-a to be routed to example-repo. 
How does this work?

Reviewer 2: Fixed, thanks!
